# LondonCrime
London Crime Point and Clustering Mapping Website Made by Mapbox and HTML.
Author: Yafei Ye, MRes Spatial Data Science and Visualisation, CASA, UCL

This website contains two interactive maps:
(1)	London Crime Point Map: This map shows street-level crimes in different types which is pretty accurate for clients. The data of this map includes ‘Metropolitan Police Service’ crime data and ‘City of London Police’ crime data achieved from Police.uk: https://data.police.uk/data/ and has been combined into one csv before uploaded to mapbox tilesets. Clients can plan and prepare their travel better before arrival according to this map, for example, they won’t put their bicycles in the street where has a big amount of bicycle theft and live in the hotel where occurs burglary frequently.
(2)	London Crime Clustering Map: This map depicts a sketchy but intuitive view of London Crime Clustering based on Safer Neighbourhood Crime Data supported by Met Police: https://www.met.police.uk/sd/stats-and-data/met/crime-data-dashboard/ which doesn't include the data in the city of London. As the bigger the size and the deeper the colour of the circle in the map, the amount of crimes in this neighbourhood is larger, clients can find which neighbourhoods have high possibility of crime directly and think cautiously of whether buying houses in these area by dragging time slider to analyse the trend. It can also urge the government to reduce the crime rate in these neighbourhood.

Dark style base map is chosen as it can make the points of crime more conspicuous. Orange is set as the thematic colour and the menu of crime types and clustering circles are filled in orange. The yellow palette is selected for point colour of crime types relevant to theft, while blue is chosen for drugs and vehicle crime, and red palette is selected for other crime types, to make them diverse but harmonious. Crime points in different types and circles of crime in different neighbourhood are added as layers by using JavaScript in HTML. The legend of crime point type is added based on the structure of the example ‘Update a choropleth layer by zoom level’ (https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/example/updating-choropleth/). ‘Show and hide layers’ (https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/example/toggle-layers/) provide the structural code to add menu in website which can show and hide layers when clicking. The last interactive example teachers showed in week 2 practical combined with ‘Create a time slider’ (https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/example/timeline-animation/) taught me how to add the time slider, popup and change circle sizes based on value. Finally, all sizes and colours of text and the arrangement of every part are adjusted according to serious consideration of aesthetics.
